# Documentation Community Team Meeting (December 2023)

- **Date:** 2023-12-05
- **Time:** [20:00 UTC](https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2023-12-05/20:00/Docs%20Meeting)
- **This HackMD:** https://hackmd.io/@encukou/pydocswg1
- [**Discourse thread**](https://discuss.python.org/t/documentation-community-meeting-tuesday-december-5-2023/40119) (for December)
- [**Meeting reports**](https://docs-community.readthedocs.io/en/latest/monthly-meeting/) (the latest one might be an [**unmerged PR**](https://github.com/python/docs-community/pulls))
- **Calendar event:** (send your e-mail to Mariatta for an invitation)
- **How to participate:**
  -  Go to [Google Meet](https://meet.google.com/dii-qrzf-wkw) and ask to be let in.
  -  To edit notes, click the “pencil” or “split view” button on the [HackMD document](https://hackmd.io/@encukou/pydocswg1). You need to log in (e.g. with a GitHub account).

By participating in this meeting, you are agreeing to abide by and uphold the [PSF Code of Conduct](https://www.python.org/psf/codeofconduct/).
Please take a second to read through it!

## Roll call

(Name / `@GitHubUsername` *[/ Discord, if different]*)
- Petr Viktorin / `@encukou`
- Daniele Procida / `@danieleprocida`
- Hugo van Kemenade / `@hugovk`
- Jim DeLaHunt / `@JDLH`
- Ryan Duve / `@ryan-duve`
- Ned Batchelder / `@nedbat`
- Bradley / `@shenanigansd`
- Ezio Melotti / `@ezio-melotti`
- CAM Gerlach / `@CAM-Gerlach`
- Usman Akinyemi / `@Unique-Usman`

## Introductions

> If there are any new people, we should do a round of introductions.

## Discussion

* [Ryan] standard library documentation reference and adding types to it in a structured way.  For example, `collections.Counter.most_common` could be written

      most_common(n: int) -> list[tuple[Any, int]]
  
  [Petr] ... or `list[tuple[KeyType, int]]`?
  
  - this has been discussed. There was opposition to adding the types to the stdlib code itself.
  - [JDLH] I sometimes wish for more normative, less chatty module documentation. e.g. [*heapq* module](https://docs.python.org/3/library/heapq.html). e.g. old issue 29428 [*Doctest documentation unclear about multi-line fixtures*](https://bugs.python.org/issue29428).

* [Petr] Use emoji to illustrate good and bad example commit messages
  * https://devguide.python.org/getting-started/git-boot-camp/#accepting-and-merging-a-pull-request
  * [python/devguide#1235](https://github.com/python/devguide/pull/1235)
  * Should we do this for PEPs? see [python/docs-community#22](https://github.com/python/docs-community/issues/22)
  * [Hugo] See also [python/peps#3567](https://github.com/python/peps/pull/3567) for green/red sidebars for good/bad example code in PEPs
  * [JDLH] don't forget accessibility constraints when coming up with the style guide. e.g. some readers are red/green colourblind. ✅❌ are good in that they are legible even without colour.

* [Ryan] Thoughts about completing TOML->JSON conversion table: https://docs.python.org/3/library/tomllib.html#conversion-table and the TOML spec: https://toml.io/en/v1.0.0#spec


## Reports and celebrations

> 60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments you think people should know about. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an update to share, you can pass.

> This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the beginning of the meeting.


- PEP 732 ("The Python Documentation Editorial Board") has been submitted to the steering council [python/steering-council#220](https://github.com/python/steering-council/issues/220)

- [Jim] FYI, Unicode Standard is changing form of authoritative standard documents from PDF to HTML, with corresponding change to document production tooling. If this is interesting I can provide more info. I am in the working group which is working on the new tooling.

## Follow-ups from previous meeting(s)

* [Petr] [Railroad diagrams](https://discuss.python.org/t/36709/20)
  * Streams have kinda been on other topics too

* Analytics (Plausible) - CAM sent an e-mail, no reply yet
    * CAM sent multiole followups
    * Hugo sent a followup two weeks ago
    * Discussion on core dev Discord that is supportive
    * Still no reply... :(

* As a beginner, what's a good starting point?
  * There are some "easy" issues, although they can occasionally not be actually-easy.
  * Interested in documentation, look at diataxis and make changes?
    * Diataxis is kinda abstract for newcomers.
  * 


### 'Internal' items

*For and about the Community or Working Group*


### Python Project Documentation

*Relating to `docs.python.org`, `peps.python.org`, `devguide.python.org`, etc.*

### PEP Workflow

## Next meeting

The docs team generally meets on the first Tuesday of every month around 20:00-ish UTC.
 * [JDLH] The first Tuesday of next month is 2 January. Will we be ready for this meeting on the day after New Year's Day? Answer: Basically yes; those who are ready will show up, others won't.

We have a recurring Google Calendar event for the meeting.
Let Mariatta know your email address and she can invite you.
